In this lab, you will use a two stage melting model to extract the
continental and oceanic crust from the primitive mantle of Earth. This
greatly simplified model of *differentiation* is able to reproduce the
elemental abundances of crustal rocks and offers quantitative
constraints about the history of melt extraction from the mantle.

This simplified history begins with the primitive mantle (often referred
to as the *bulk silicate earth*). This geochemical reservoir represents
the mantle of Earth (after core formation) before the crust was
extracted. In other words, the primitive mantle would be the result of
could mix the entire crust back into the present day mantle. You will
differentiate Earth in two discrete stages of melt extraction:

-  Stage 1: A partial melt of the *primitive mantle* is extracted to
   form the continental crust, leaving behind a mantle that is depleted
   in highly incompatible elements.

-  Stage 2: A partial melt of the left behind *depleted mantle* is
   extracted to form the oceanic crust.

You will use **Fractional melting** equations to complete these stages
of differentiation, and you will directly compare your modeled melts to
the average composition of continental crust and mid-ocean ridge basalt
(oceanic crust).

The **partition coefficient**, :math:`D`, describes the ratio of
concentrations for an element between a mineral and a melt at
equilibrium:

.. math:: D=\frac{C_S}{C_L}

**Fractional melting** describes a scenario where some fraction of a
rock melts and that melt is immediately separated from the rock. The
concentration of a trace element in the remaining rock is described by
this equation:

.. math:: \frac{C_S}{C_0}=(1-F)^{(D^{-1}-1)}

The concentration of a trace element in an infinitely small fraction of
melt, often referred to as the *instantaneous melt*, is described by
this equation:

.. math:: \frac{C_L}{C_0}= \frac{(1-F)^{(D^{-1}-1)}}{D}

C is the concentration of a trace element. Subscript L represents the
melt phase. Subscript S represents the solid phase. C\ :math:`_0` means
at the initial conditions when solid is 100% of the system. D is the
partition coefficient, and F is the melt fraction (where 1 is 100%
melt).
